Now that we've got some experience creating neural networks ourselves,
let's see how easy it is to create neural networks with TensorFlow and Keras.
Here we're using TF Keras to build
the same fully-connected network that we built in the previous sections of this notebook.
As we can see, it only took a few lines of code to create this same network.
Let's go through this code line by line.
So in Keras, deep learning models are constructed
by connecting configurable building blocks called layers.
The most common type of model is a stack of layers called a sequential model.
The model is called sequential because it allows the tensor
to be passed sequentially through the operations in each layer.
So in this first line,
we're creating a sequential model by using TF.Keras.sequential.
Our sequential model has three layers.
Our first layer, also known as the input layer is flattened layer.
This layer flattens our input images so that we don't
have to flatten the images ourselves before fitting them into the network.
That's pretty sweet, right?
One last thing to worry about.
The first layer in a sequential model needs
to know the shape of the input tensors to the model.
Since this is our first layer,
we need to specify the shape of our input tensors by using the input shape parameter.
The input shape parameter is specified by using a tuple.
This tuple contains the size and the number of color channels of our images.
Here we're specifying that our images have a size of
28 by 28 pixels and that they have one color channel.
Since they are gray scale images,
it is important to note that we don't have to include the batch size in this tuple.
The second layer of our network is going to be a fully connected layer.
Fully connected layers are also known as densely connected layers,
which is why in TF Keras we refer to them as dense layers.
For a dense layer,
we need to specify the number of neurons and the activation function we want to use.
In this particular case,
we're going to use 256 neurons and we're going to use a sigmoid activation function.
Note that we don't have to specify the shape of the input denser to this layer,
because Keras performs automatic shape inference
for all layers except for the first layer.
Our third and last layer,
also known as the output layer,
is also going to be a dense layer,
but now with then neurons and a soft max activation function and that's it.
That's how easy it is to create a model with TF Keras.
Once we have created our model,
we can use the.summary method to print out
some information about our models architecture and its parameters.
Here we can see the name of our model,
which in this case is sequential.
The first column indicates the type of layers that we have in our model.
Here we can see that we have three layers where the first layer is a flattened layer,
and the second and third layer, are dense layers.
Notice that the second dense layer is named dense
underscore one to differentiate it from the first dense layer.
The second column shows us the output shape of each of our layers.
Notice that they all have the word none in their first dimension.
Here, the word none indicates that these layers can accept batches of any size.
Remember that the batch size must always be a positive integer.
The third column shows us the number of parameters in each of our layers.
The parameters here, refer to the number of weights and biases in each of our layers.
Finally, we can see the total number of parameters in our neural network.
We also see how many of those parameters are
trainable and how many of those parameters are non-trainable.
In this case, we see that all the parameters are trainable,
which means all our weights and biases need to be tuned or trained.
Now it's your turn to build a neural network using TensorFlow and Keras.
In this exercise, you're going to build a neural network with these four layers.
Now, is a good time to pause the video and try out
this exercise for yourself before I show you my solution.
Here is my solution to this exercise.
As you can see, everything is the same as before,
except that now we're using
the RELU activation function for the first and second hidden layers.
Here we can see a summary of this model.